Document cost and budget visibility for non-billing users (#7273)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/cloud-organization/billing/monitor-analyze-usage.md

Information about your current {{ecloud}} subscription usage is available directly from the [{{ecloud}} Console](https://cloud.elastic.co?page=docs&placement=docs-body) and includes:

* Monitor usage for the current month, including month-to-date usage
* For customers with annual prepaid credits, the total value of credits to be applied in the current billing cycle (visible only to users with the **Organization owner** or **Billing admin** role)
* Check the usage breakdown for a selected time range
* View usage totals by product

> You can check the detailed usage for a selected time range grouped either by product or by resource, such as an {{ech}} deployment or a {{serverless-full}} project.

Reviewer: this page is getting pretty long which means it needs a little structure

```suggestion
## View detailed usage

You can check the detailed usage for a selected time range grouped either by product or by resource, such as an {{ech}} deployment or a {{serverless-full}} project.
```

> What you can see on the **Usage** page depends on your {{ecloud}} roles:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The information you can see on the **Usage** page depends on your {{ecloud}} [roles](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cloud-organization/user-roles.md#types-of-roles):
```

* Users with a connected cluster access role can view usage and costs for the connected clusters they have access to.

Additionally, for any resource you currently have access to, you can view its full available cost history, including costs from before you were granted access.

To access your account usage:

1. Log in to [{{ecloud}}](https://cloud.elastic.co?page=docs&placement=docs-body).
2. From the navigation menu, select **Billing > Usage**.

::::{important}
The usage breakdown information visible on the **Usage** page is an estimate, and does not include prepaid credits, free allowances or any discounts. If you're an **Organization owner** or **Billing admin**, check your invoices in the [billing history](/deploy-manage/cloud-organization/billing/view-billing-history.md) to find the exact amount you owe for a given month.
::::

:::{note}
Organization-wide financial details — such as your credit balance, [billing history](/deploy-manage/cloud-organization/billing/view-billing-history.md), and invoices — remain available only to users with the **Organization owner** or **Billing admin** role.

> :::

Reviewer: this page is about usage monitoring, so this note feels out of place. I think that nothing that is present on this page would give the impression that users with other roles will be given access to financial details. It probably makes more sense to say who has access to those surfaces on the docs for those surfaces:

https://www.elastic.co/docs/deploy-manage/cloud-organization/billing/view-billing-history

https://www.elastic.co/docs/deploy-manage/cloud-organization/billing/ecu#view-available-credits

Author: @shainaraskas Thank you for this feedback and for all your other comments/suggestions. They are very helpful.

Regarding the "out of place" issue, you are right. So, I pushed 5e3cdb9 and a9766c6. What do you think?

I've received approval, but just to be sure, I'll wait a little while before merging. :)

Reviewer: @sakurai-youhei nice improvement! good to merge.

You can check the detailed usage for a selected time range grouped either by product or by resource, such as an {{ech}} deployment or a {{serverless-full}} project.

What you can see on the **Usage** page depends on your {{ecloud}} roles:

* **Organization owners** and **Billing admins** can view usage and costs for the entire organization.
* Members with a cloud resource access role, such as **Admin**, **Editor**, or **Viewer**, can view usage and costs for the {{ech}} deployments, {{serverless-short}} projects, and connected clusters they have access to.

> For any resource you have access to, you can view its full available cost history, including costs from before you were granted access.

Author: Addressed in c10a260c: rewrote the bullet to name both role categories (cloud resource access role and connected cluster access role) without listing role names, since Admin/Editor/Viewer apply to cloud resource access roles only — connected cluster access roles have Admin and Viewer only, with no Editor.

To access your account usage:

1. Log in to [{{ecloud}}](https://cloud.elastic.co?page=docs&placement=docs-body).
2. From the navigation menu, select **Billing > Usage**.

::::{important}

> The usage breakdown information visible on the **Usage** page is an estimate, and does not include prepaid credits, free allowances or any discounts. To get the exact amount you owe for a given month, check your invoices in the [billing history](/deploy-manage/cloud-organization/billing/view-billing-history.md).

Author: Addressed in aedea7b3: added a role condition ("If you're an Organization owner or Billing admin") so the invoices instruction targets only users who can actually access billing history and invoices, avoiding the contradiction with the note below that restricts those to owners/admins.

::::

:::{note}
Organization-wide financial details — such as your credit balance, [billing history](/deploy-manage/cloud-organization/billing/view-billing-history.md), and invoices — remain available only to organization owners and billing admins.

> :::

Author: This was addressed in [dcbd01e](https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/7273/commits/dcbd01e764b7dda34efb1f4e82b43ee573590b1c).

You can check the detailed usage for a selected time range grouped either by product or by resource, such as an {{ech}} deployment or a {{serverless-full}} project.

What you can see on the **Usage** page depends on your {{ecloud}} roles:

* Users with the **Organization owner** or **Billing admin** role can view usage and costs for the entire organization.
* Users with a cloud resource access role can view usage and costs for the {{ech}} deployments and {{serverless-short}} projects they have access to.
* Users with a connected cluster access role can view usage and costs for the connected clusters they have access to.

> For any resource you currently have access to, you can view its full available cost history, including costs from before you were granted access.

Author: Addressed in 04c06359.

Added a parenthetical visibility qualifier to the prepaid credits bullet: "(visible only to users with the **Organization owner** or **Billing admin** role)". Credit balance information is an organization-wide financial detail — consistent with the note at the bottom of the page that explicitly limits credit balance, billing history, and invoices to those roles.

The other items in the list (month-to-date usage, breakdown by time range, totals by product) are usage data that non-billing users can also see for resources within their scope, so they don't need a qualifier.
